Okay, so now that you have a great
understanding on middlewares,
now there is something that
I want to really tell you.
Number one, that you
can define middlewares.
You know about middlewares.
You can have two kinds
of middlewares, okay?
So how middlewares can work.
So you can have
global middlewares, okay?
So global middlewares are middlewares
which will run every time.
For example, these middlewares will
run every time, no matter where, on
which route the requester is going.
Because you have defined it
on your very top.
These middlewares will always
and always run, right?
Secondly, you can have, okay, you
can have route level middlewares
as a root level middlewares.
So root level middlewares.
So root level middleware means
that, let's say,
let me define a function here, okay?
Now look at me very closely.
What I'm going to do is I'm just
going to extract out this function
and I'm going to put it here.
Okay?
So this function is basically
a logger middleware.
Yes or no?
Yeah, this is a logger middleware.
And I can pass a reference
now here, okay, Because
I have extracted it out.
So that's fine.
Now what I can do is
this is a middleware.
That's fine.
Let's create one more
middleware that is function.
And I can say custom middleware.
Okay.
I, mean, I was not able to think
of a good name, but yeah.
So what I can do is let's say that
this is console log, that I
am, a, custom middle middleware.
And then you can just call
the next function, right?
So what you can do is, if you try
to do this thing that is register.
Now, this is a global
middleware, right?
But what you can do is you
can just take out this middleware
and put it right here.
What this means that, hey,
if there is a request on this
specific route, first you have
to run this middleware.
Okay?
First you have to
run this middleware.
Now this middleware again can either
get the request right.
It can like read the request,
modify something.
So for this particular middleware, it
can either end the request response
cycle or, in this particular
scenario, the next function will
point to this particular function.
So that means this middleware.
So what will happen when the request
will come to this particular route?
First this middleware will run,
then this middleware will run.
Then the request will be matched
to this particular route
which will run this middleware.
And this middleware internally
calls the next function, which will
eventually invoke this function.
You can even have series
of middleware.
For example, you can
even do again logger.
Okay, so now first this, then he's
his next function will actually
point to this logger middleware.
This logger middleware's next
function, which is this will
then point to this one.
Got it.
So this is also possible.
So technically you know what
happens if I just remove this.
Now this is also middleware only.
This thing is also a middleware
only, which is only and only running
for this particular route.
So you can even have a next
function and call it.
But because it's a final
middleware, we just terminate
the request response cycle.
You get it?
This is also kind
of a middleware only.
The only thing is that
we are terminating
the request response cycle.
Okay, so this is how you can even
have route specific middlewares,
route level middlewares.
And thirdly, you can have, okay,
you can have router middlewares,
router middle wares.
Now this router middlewares.
For this you have to first
cover the concept of routers
in Express, okay?
And so that we will cover
in the next video.
So once we cover the routers,
then we can cover the router
middlewares as well.
But I hope the concept
of middleware is not clear to you.
So now when you will read this
code now you will understand
this better that why they
have written like app dot get.
You know what else you can do?
You can even do something like this.
Now this is very interesting app.
Use you can actually give a path, for
example, if it is like slash books.
Okay, now you can have
a middleware function that is
request response and next.
Now this particular middleware,
this middleware will always
run if the path matches this.
So even if it is, if it is okay, if
it is a get or post or any request,
any kind of request on okay, on
books, this middleware is going to
run because you have given a
matching path.
So for this particular path,
this middleware is going to run.
So yeah, this is also possible.
Okay, so basically you can even
have route level middlewares,
router level Middlewares,
global middlewares, or you can
have a logic to match a
middleware only when a specific
route is matched.
So with this you have completed your
middlewares, but you will understand
them better once we go into our
major project where we will have
authentication and authorization.
So, so there you will understand
the actual use of middlewares.
Okay?
And yeah, one more thing.
Starting with Express, five
middleware functions that return
a promise call, when they
reject, they throw an error.